I do not know to what extent the
arguments offered by a natural vegan are
insincere or are just sincerely ignorant
and wrong but it seems to be very
strange that someone who would argue
that vegans for example can greatly
reduce their impact on the world ecology
would suddenly forget that fact when
turning to the issue of overpopulation
and the presumed significance of
overpopulation at third world countries
the people of Rwanda Laos and Lesotho
are not vegan I don't think any of those
countries has even a 1 percent vegan
population rate it's probably pretty
close to zero and all three of those
countries and yet if you glance at this
chart you can see right away the
ecological impact of having a baby if
having a new infant grow up to be an
adult that lifecycle ecological impact
of the Rwandan a lotion or a Liz otha
Lian child sorry if I mispronounced that
is much much lower than a new child
being born and raised and going to
adulthood in the United States of Canada
this is such a basic fact I don't see
how anyone on any site of the anti-natal
s debate could ignore it especially not
if you're having an ADA list versus a
needless debate within veganism where
these kinds of statistics seem to be the
bread and butter of our movement they're
used all the time and yet here they seem
to be conveniently ignored by a natural
vegan they're overpopulated why the
do you feel so self entitled to breed
especially when you're vegan well you're
already aware of what the hell's going
on at our planet I guess they think that
that the entire world is dealing with
overpopulation like somehow them not
having children is going to improve the
situation in like the developing world
it would be really easy to accuse a
natural vegan of racism and I'm not
gonna do that
it's too easy do you really think a
first world country like the Netherlands
does not have any problem with
overpopulation
it's very easy in the world the world as
reorganized by Google and Wikipedia for
you to look up right now population
density people per square kilometer
there are also more nuanced measurements
you can look at like the ratio between
the number of inhabitants and the amount
of food that land can produce this is a
quote from a website that's advocating
against overpopulation and really
arguing at length that it's a problem
the Netherlands I don't agree with every
sentiment or every claim on this website
but it's one example and it says quote
at the moment the Netherlands has around
60 million inhabitants it's grown it's
now 17 million since this website was
written our country can only produce
food for around 5 million we have to ask
ourselves if the countries that are
exporting food and raw materials the
moment will still we want to do this in
3040 years time look it's completely
asinine for a natural vegan to ask as if
it's a preposterous suggestion that it
is the whole world's problem that the
world is over but you think it's not the
whole world's problem do you think that
people in the Netherlands only eat food
produced in the Netherlands are only use
ecological services or only produce air
pollution that impacts the Netherlands
only reduce water pollution that impacts
no ones yeah
above all else obviously food production
has been globalized to an unbelievable
extent when I was in Cambodia Cambodian
rice farmers were farming rice to be
exported to North Africa and North
African people were eating Cambodian
rice I guess they think that that the
entire world is dealing with
overpopulation yes overpopulation is a
worldwide problem and it links Cambodia
to North Africa and it links the
Netherlands to Canada and these same
people vegans like a natural vegan will
talk about you know climate change and
air pollution is a global problem no
problem so why is it she suddenly
becomes conveniently scientifically
illiterate and pretends this is a
problem that only exists in third-world
countries and the people in first world
countries have no connection to when it
comes to overpopulation
Nadel ISM and antinatalism and what I
think is really a spectrum of you know
different views there isn't a simple
dichotomy between antenatal lust and
pronatalist when you really think of
almost nobody supports either extreme
position on this issue there are a lot
of moderate positions between and in
fact if you listen to them vegan gains
mr. girlfriend are moderates but look
it's not just about raw overpopulation
it's not just about the fact that a
country like the Netherlands has an
unbelievably high population density
this is the same chart we had before but
with two more countries at the list
here's the Netherlands compared to
Bangladesh in terms of their water
footprint per capita and their
ecological footprint per capita okay the
Netherlands is overpopulated
overpopulation is a problem in some
first world countries not others there
it's a problem in some third-world
countries not others Laos is
underpopulated Bangladesh is
overpopulated and they're pretty much
next-door to each other and it's an open
question as to how much Bangladesh the
immigration and we're gonna get migrants
going from Bangladesh to Laos in the
future for exactly that reason but any
case apart from the mere fact of
overpopulation itself there's the
question of the ecological impact of
that population and that changes
dramatically with things like yes yes
y'all meat consumption and whether or
not you've heard of it of course
long-distance flights taking basically
how much to what extent you rely on
airplanes and to water sent your country
as a whole
relies on airplanes which may be used
for transport reviews for military
purposes but yes also for taking
vacations that kind of thing and look
look at the chart on the right you could
have maybe five children in Bangladesh
who live and are raised at a Bangladeshi
quality of life with Bangladeshi
environmental impacts and you would
never have the negative ecological
impact of just one child and that one's
basically overpopulation in the
developed world is a myth the problem is
in developing countries where there are
not enough resources for the number of
people
now I have not ever lived in Bangladesh
Bangladesh has not been a meaningful
part of my life I used to be a scholar
of Buddhism and I lived in Laos which
we'll also see on this chart I've got to
tell you a lot of people are happy with
the quality of life level of consumption
and level of negative ecological impact
that they haven't Laos I met a lot of
Europeans who preferred to live in Laos
I met Europeans who preferred to live in
small villages at supposedly third-world
quality of living Laos Laos is not now
in extreme poverty they've emerged from
the period of the most extreme poverty
went through they've emerged in the
period where the average lifespan was
under 50 years per person and it's now
into a kind of moderate poverty but
whether you're talking about Laos or
Cuba or Lozado I met and spoke with one
guy who'd been to Lhasa though he lived
in South Africa and he told me about you
know what life was like in Lazaro also
there are you know this is not the case
that we're comparing a life of unlimited
luxury indulgence to a life of horrible
privation I can tell you from experience
life in Laos is worth living a lot of
people who whether or on vacation or do
humanitarian work go to places like Cuba
I knew one guy who did humanitarian work
at Cuba for quite some time whether
whichever example you want to take
Lazaro or Laos or Cuba human beings do
lead meaningful lives in these places it
is possible to live a life that has a a
much I'm not gonna say a life in balance
with nature nobody in Laos is trying to
live in balance in nature nobody in
Bangladesh astride a little bit nobody
and none of these people are vegan way
less than 1% of people in any one of
these countries is vegan but simply
they're living a life that is a
radically lower environmental impact per
person so in terms of both pro
needleless antenatal it's debates and
the moderate positions in between we
need to be mindful we need to not adopt
the pseudo racist position of a natural
vegan that this is a problem that
somehow is created in third world
countries that people in first world
countries don't need to deal with
whatever we're talking about ecological
services water pollution air pollution
of course there's a global dimension of
oh of course there is shame on you for
pretending there isn't and then above
and beyond that shame on you for not
recognizing or pretending not
know that the real ecological impact
whether you use water footprint
ecological footprint air pollution
measurements whichever measurement of
pollution you you you want to use that
that is exponentially lower for people
living in third world conditions people
having an raising a baby than it is for
you in the United States of America you
seem like a good day how many children
do you have by how many mothers you can
see why some people are gonna say that's
a little bit odd okay my kids are you
able and I you have every right to have
as many children are you a are you able
to pay child support I can't pay no
child support right now they know I
can't play them no child support right
now why do you think I might hip
mentoring and talking to kids and doing
all this stuff is whatever it is man you
get what do you think you'll have any
more children you're a young man
I don't want no more kids I want to be
fixed I got kids right now this 15 16 17
years old they'll miss let me ask you
this it's a lot of kids and I want to
put you on the spot but can you name
them all give it a shot do you really
want me to do this name a few of them
you said 17 all my boy's name is Orlando
one of my boys name is Tasha on one arm
is quite Lindo then I got on land real
or land real oneisha
Oh Miko okay you get what I'm saying
I got a miracle to me I got real I got a
member well I got him hey I named them I
mean these kids a Tennessee man holds a
county record in Knoxville listen to
this he's the father of 30 children and
he's only 33 years old
Desmond hatchet was back in court this
week pleading with the state to help him
pay his child support he's the father of
30 kids with 11 different women and each
of them wads support the state already
takes half his paycheck and divides it
up his oldest child is only 14 his
youngest is a toddler there is nothing
the state can do to make him stop having
more kids he has not broken any law
in case you think this is a bad
stereotype about african-american men
let me tell you something my father
identified as white and he was just as
bad as any of these guys my father had
nine kids with a whole bunch of
different women and I do not take a
pronate ----list position---- none of
these issues I am actually closer to the
anti needless position I'm a moderate
but I am on a different point of the
spectrum from Richard and Jasmine here
Richard and jasmine their video really
just disgusts the decision to have
children as a personal choice as
something that reflects your values your
economic concerns yes but ultimately
just how you want to spend your time how
you want to enjoy your life and I don't
see it that way I actually think there
should be upper limits how many children
you have what the limits are going to be
different in different countries and
that ultimately those decisions have to
be made and enforced by governments now
governments can of course discourage
high birth rates or they can set a
target birth rate in different ways in
my earlier video I mentioned that
because Laos is actually under populated
the government there encourages people
to have four kids but for kids only not
five not six not eight not 12 and you
know that is itself a significant policy
decision with significant ramifications
in China we used to have a one-child
policy now it's been increased to a
two-child policy but nevertheless that's
a situation where government is imposing
a maximum birth rate and some
governments in the opposite position in
Japan there's actually worry about the
birth rate being too low with popular
the possibility of population collapse
and what that'll mean for the country
but let me just say I don't believe my
father should have had the legal right
to have nine kids and I was the youngest
of those nine kids so yes in my case it
absolutely means that I would not exist
and you can quote me on this existing is
one of my favorite things to do but
nevertheless I have to call my own
existence into question here I
absolutely think any responsible country
should have sat down the authorities
should have sat down with my my father
at some point whether it was when he had
four kids or five kids and said look you
enough is enough ultimately there are
questions here a regulation there are
questions that go far beyond personal
choice there are questions of what kind
of society we want to live in and you
know how those decisions are made what
the rules are and how they're enforced
are very very important political
decisions they're not anything I take
like lightly although I am NOT an ante
natal list it's really ironic that in
this situation in terms of the stated
position of Richard and Jasmine they are
just telling you that this is a personal
choice try to make the right choice
think about your values think but we
really want life and they feel that many
people we don't know how many they don't
offer us a percentage guess they don't
say whether it's 50% of people or 6% of
people are talking about but they feel
that many people will agree with them
and will not agree with the sort of
stereotypical grandmother trying to
force you to have kids as early as
possible and as often as possible I
think there's a much deeper question
that every one of the audience needs to
ask themselves when you step away from
these stereotyped notions reject the
stereotyped image presented by unnatural
vegan that this is just a problem for
the third world it's only problem for
countries not in the first what
countries know there are plenty of third
world countries that are that are under
populated that are depopulated like Laos
or like Myanmar Myanmar owes an
incredibly low population densities on
and then there are other third-world
countries right next door to them that
are overpopulated so the difference is
not first versus their world there are
first world countries like the
Netherlands where overpopulation is a
real and rational concern and there are
countries that may be large in terms of
their expanse of empty land where that
land is not really fertile is not really
arable or is not really inhabitable so
you nevertheless get overpopulation
problems with the population being
crowded into just a few cities just a
few trading ports I do not want to
venture a guess as to how close to their
maximum population capacity you know
Iceland is a small country like Iceland
a country like Greenland
although underpopulated in terms of just
looking at the raw data if you try to do
an ecological and economic analysis what
is the maximum population Greenland can
carry or what's the optimum population
Greenland can carry very very difficult
decisions to make
but those decisions ultimately translate
into government policies on how many
children you should have they ultimately
translate into government policies that
would take away the freedom of my own
father to have more kids when he's
already had four or he's already had
five whatever the number is that's the
decision we have to make society as it
says you have to make in a democratic
and transparent fashion and many people
who've attacked me for being anti
anti-natal list might be surprised if
they calm down and realized where I
stood on this spectrum a spectrum were
very very few people in fact adopt
either of the opposite extremes
evolution